# Introduction to Content-Based Recommenders

## Basic Ides: Stable Preferences (measured by content attributes)

Key ideas

* Model items according to relevant attributes
* Model or reveal user preferences by attributes

* Content-based approaches to recommendation
  * Pure information filtering systems
  * Case-based reasoning systems
  * Knowledge-based navigation systems

## Content-Based Filtering

* Key concept: building a vector of attribute or keyword preferences

> * [The Krakatoa Chronicle - An Interactive, Personalized, Newspaper on the Web](https://www.w3.org/Conferences/WWW4/Papers/93/)

### Wide range of Possibilities (to get users' preferences)

> e.g. a "keyword set" to personalize the recommendation of news

* User could build own profile (awkward)
  * but allowing user to edit a profile can be valuable
  * (user can correct your recommendation; instead of asking them to fill them out)
* Infer profile from user actions
  * read, buy, click
* Infer profile from explicit user ratings
  * how to map from item preference to attribute preference
* Merge actions/explicit into infer from ratings (explicit and implicit)

### How to build preferences?

* A set of "keywords" that users may like, dislike, or not have an opinion on
* Count the number of times the user chooses (or fails to choose) items with each keyword
* (or more sophisticated)

### How to use preferences

> salient feature

* Given a vector of keyword preferences
  * o we just add up likes and dislikes?
  * Can we figure out which keywords are more and less relevant
* Forward reference: TF-IDF
  * how important (how frequent) is this description in the current product? But also how often does it occur across out entire set?

> Q: Thinking back to the Krakatoa Chronicle, why did its designers choose to mix editor’s choices with choices made from using the user’s keyword preference profile.  Jot down a few of the reasons you think are best, then we’ll add our own.  
>
> A: Some users might not read the article carefully, the editor knows more about the article detail, sometimes might be able to give a more precise recommendation.
>
> Here are our thoughts:
>
> * They recognized that news might contain new and important items that users didn’t already have in their profiles (after all, who would have known to be interested in ISIS, Zika, or all sorts of other news topics before they were first covered).  
> * They also recognized that news isn’t all about fulfilling personal interests; it is about building common ground in a community (so whatever everyone else is reading automatically becomes important).
> * They also recognized that users might want news that doesn’t just match their preferences, but exceeds them by relying on experts to recommend the news.  The editor’s choices are expert (if non-personalized) recommendations.

## Case-Based Recommendation

* The Concept:
  * Structure a database of cases around a set of relevant attributes (e.g. camera price, zoom, pixels)
  * Query based on an example or attribute
* Open issue: Many ways to structure interaction

> * Asking a sequence of questions to see what you actually need and recommend matched items for you

### Knowledge-Based Recommender

* Case-Based Example with Navigation Interface

### More Generally

* Case-Based Approaches (Knowledge, Database, etc.) are often most helpful for ephemerally-personalized experiences
  * Shopping - suggest similar relevant items
    * compare with collaborative - suggest items that are co-purchased or co-browsed
  * Content - suggest similar stories
* Case-Based recommendations are often easier to the user

## Challenges and Drawbacks (for Content-Based Techniques)

* Depend on well-structured attributes that align with preferences (consider paintings)
* Depend on having a reasonable distribution of attributes across items (and vice versa)
* Unlikely to find surprising connections (e.g. chili peppers or lemon with chocolate)
* **Harder to find complements that substitutes**
  * hard to recommend in a "bought also bought" scenario

> So, which of the following would be challenging domains for which to build a good content-based recommender?
>
> * Recommending people for a date
>   * Well, this isn’t right or wrong, but experience has shown that some amount of content matching seems to work well (people have pretty strong content preferences in some areas:  gender, religion, age, education); but that doesn’t mean that a content-based recommender won’t miss some candidates who would be an excellent match.
> * Recommending a pattern of silverware to purchase  
> * Recommending books to give as a gift to the best man or maid of honor at your wedding
>   * This is a bit of a trick question.  There are lots of attributes for books, and indeed plenty of recommenders that do a good job with content-based techniques.  But in this case, the problem is that you’re buying for someone else.  It is hard to build a recommender without substantial input data (ratings or lists of the books your best man or maid of honor has liked and disliked).
> * Recommending family photos from within a personal collection
>   * This is probably hard because most personal collections don’t have much content data annotating the photos.  If your collection has tags, labels, or a system to automatically apply them, maybe content filtering would work.

## Take-away

* Many ways to recommend based on content (product attributes)
  * Long-term: build profile of content preferences
  * Shorter-term: build database of cases; navigate
* Content-based techniques work without a large set of users (but need item data)
* Good at finding substitutes; good at helping navigate for a purchase; good explainability
