# Product Association Recommenders

## Ephemeral, Contextual Personalization

* Personalized to "what you are doing"
  * Your current navigation is a reflection of your current interest
  * doesn't reflect any long-term knowledge of your preferences

## How to compute?

> transaction data

1. Manual Cross-Sell Table
   * Generated by marketers to reflect perceived cross-sales or up-sales
2. Data Mining Associations
   * What are we looking for
     * mostly likely to be bought in this context?
     * most "extra-likely" to be bought in this context?

### Start Simple

Percentage of X-buyers who also bought Y; divide the counts

$$
\frac{X \land Y}{Y}
$$

* Intuitively right, but is it useful? What if X is anchovy paste and Y is bananas?
* Challenge: doesn't compensate for overall popularity of Y

> Q: Which of the following statements about the basic (X and Y) / X formula are true? (Select all that apply)  
>
> * One problem with this formula is that it can give a high score to a product that a customer is actually less likely to buy because of the companion product.
> * The formula accurately reflects the percentage of people who have bought X that also have bought Y (in other words, the probability that someone who buys X will also buy Y).

### Bayes Law

$$
P(A|B) = \frac{P(B|A)P(A)}{P(B)}
$$

how much more likely Y is than it was before X was purchased as the triggering event

$$
\frac{P(Y|X)}{P(Y)}
$$

### Other solutions

Association rule mining brings us eht lift metric

$$
\frac{P(X \land Y)}{P(X) \times P(Y)}
$$

* This looks at non-directional association
* More generally association rules look at baskets of products, not just individuals

## Association Rules in Practice

* The Beer and Diapers Story
* Not Just Products... Link Associations
* Sports Cars and Leather Driving Gloves
* Are All Recommendations Worth Making?
  * Business Rules

## Take-away

* Product association recommenders use present context to provide more relevant recommendations
  * current products, path, links
* Can compute product associations from prior transaction history
  * balance between high-probability and increased probability
* Such recommendations can be targeted for additional or replacement purchases

"Replacement vs. Add-on"
